during the election which in hindsight you think
was unkind or anything like that? No, we were
pretty good friends and we didn't, we didn't, if it
was I didn't, if it was Roger got away with it
because I didn't find out about it. So you won and
what was the margin or do you remember? I think it
was 55-60%, something like that. Did Dean
Hannigan or anyone else call you in and give you any
guidance or direction or? Afterward?
Mm-hmm. Uh-uh. All right, what did you think your
role was as president of the student body? Well, I
looked at it kind of from, we looked at it a little
bit from a point of view of trying to get people to
think that it meant something instead of just
holding office and voting on a new constitution or
whatever. And so that's when we decided to do the
refrigerator deal. We knew that a lot of students
couldn't afford to pay $300
for a little refrigerator in their dorm. And we
didn't have permission from the administration
to put the refrigerators in the dorm because of the
electricity they would use anyway. But we found
this company that sold refrigerators and they
didn't want to sell them for 10 or 15 bucks a month
payment but they said if we can do two or three
thousand of them we can do them for 10 or 15 bucks a
month and then take them back at the end of the year
and stuff like that so we went we got permission
from dr williams to put the refrigerators in and
use the extra juice and then we got brought the
company in to
start selling them and we sold them, we leased them
through the student government and so thousands
of them, I mean almost every dorm room eventually
wound up having one. It turned into the huge cash
flow deal for for student government even to the
point where we wouldn't have needed any money from
the university or MSC to to finance operations and
then that's when we moved started working on the
two other things. We started working on the buses
which eventually like six months afterwards came
into being and we started working on a student
credit union. We wanted to bring a student credit
union in and the banks locally just went crazy. I
mean they just screamed and hollered and started
putting students on their boards, all those kinds
of stuff to offset that. I think eventually a
credit union came in, but it was pretty seriously
opposed by financial institutions around
College Station and Bryan when we were trying to
bring a student credit union in. Did you have any
dreams, plans that obviously in hindsight
weren't any good? That weren't any good? I'm sure I
forgot. I'm sure I did, but I worked hard to forget
them. Who did you turn to for advice? Probably
just a little cabinet I had. There was a guy named
Randy Ross, and there was a guy named Mike Esmeyer,
who was really a hard worker. He's the one that did
the refrigerators. And I lived with the Corps
staff and the Corps commander and all those folks.
So the closest people to me were my fellow members
of Corps staff. Was there a kind of an unofficial
campus student inner circle? Yeah. Who were they?
What were they? Well, it was, it was, it was core
staff, the head of civilian student council, the
cabinet of student government and Kirk Hawkins
and the folks at the MSC. They kind of got together
pretty regularly to do stuff. And did y'all ever go
as a group to present any master plan of any sort to
Dr. Williams? Yeah, we wanted to do a, we revised
the student constitution to allow more civilian
input. We thought that And the Corps was not real
crazy about that. But it turned out good, because
if we had kept it like it was, it was almost
impossible to ever get any serious number of
civilians into student government. It's
probably like a little Nixon gone to China deal.
Somebody in the Corps could do that, but Capernaum
couldn't, or somebody like that. And so we devised
a new constitution that allowed allowed people
within student government to be elected from
dormitories instead of popular vote just you know
because we could one area could could block work
the whole thing and I think that wound up helping
because it got everybody involved in stuff at
school. What in hindsight what did you learn from
that year that would be important to you in your
public leadership years after that? I guess, you
know, I thought back to that time a lot. I got a real
charge out of doing stuff. I mean, the
refrigerator sounded like, you know, not a very
big deal, but to a lot of students, that is a big
deal, because they no longer had to walk all the way
to Northgate or somewhere to get food that night if
they wanted to eat in the dorm. They could have
something right there, and they never had that
before, and that, I remember We get calls, we get
letters from people saying, hey, that was a neat
deal and stuff like that. And I like that feeling. I
like that part of it. I think it did a lot to make me
think public service might be something I want to
get into. All right. Did you learn some negative
things, some things not to try, not to do in later
life? Yeah, I'm sure. But I can't think of them at
the time. You don't remember? Yeah, don't talk to
the press. Hayden Whitsitt. I remember the editor
of the battalion was, we were all very wary of him
and that's a feeling that hasn't left me. Dealing
with the press. When you were getting ready to
leave the campus as an Aggie graduate, how well
prepared did you think A&M had made you? Oh, I think
good. But as good as the academic part of it was, I
have always believed that from what I have done in
life, the outside of academic stuff was at least as
important. The student government service, the
core, and things like that were I mean, I think you
have an opportunity at A&M, even if you're not in
the Corps because of the opportunities the MSC
avails you, that you have an opportunity to get two
degrees, every kid does, one in academics and one
in leadership, and the second one's free if you
choose it.
What is it, maybe this is repetitive, what has it
meant to you that you are an Aggie? Well, it's meant
an awful lot. I mean, I think if, God, I try to think
of what would happen if I had not gone to A&M and had
gone to some other college. I just get the
impression that in most instances, some other
college gives you a degree, a few people that
you've known, and that's a wonderful deal, and I'm
sure you'll make a great accountant and go down the
road. What I got here was just as good or better,
probably a better degree, particularly as A&M's
stature has grown. I mean, it's kind of like the
stock market. Every year A&M gets better and
better nationally, and my degree is worth more and
more. But aside from that, I think I've got a little
share of stock in an entire network of people. If I
need to go, if I need to talk about It's an
accounting firm that I own part of now. If I need to
talk to somebody in Frito-Lay about tax policy or
accounting or something like that, I'll find
somebody in there that's got dash 73 or something
by their name in the directory, and that's who I go
to and say, who's the head duck and tell me how to get
there. And nine times out of ten, they can tell me
how to get there or they are the head duck. Let's
make believe that you were hired now as a
consultant to the Texas A&M leadership today.
That I was what? That you're hiring out as a
consultant? Yeah. What advice would you give them
about Texas A&M right now?
To do or not do? I would tell them that you are under
utilizing your assets and getting money out of the
state and federal government for this
institution. That's what I tell them. I tell them
you're sitting there with 254 county agents.
You're sitting there with God knows how many
captains or vice captains of industry all over the
place. All of which tomorrow would call a
legislator and say, let me talk to you about
scholarship program at A&M, or let me talk to you
about this line item, and all those kinds of
things. I mean, you could, you could bury them in,
in goodwill, and we have never done that. What
else? Anything you'd advise them to change or
never change? Well, I'll tell you what, they've
done a lot better in the, in the spirit category
than I thought was going to happen in 1972 when I saw
it in the rear view mirror that day. And so I sure
wouldn't change that. I think they're doing a good
job in recruiting kids and every kid I know wants to
come here except mine. Let's make believe that
someone walked up to you and handed you a check for a
million dollars with one restriction on it. You
must pass it on to Texas A&M But you can decide to use
to be made of that money. If you could make a major
gift to A&M, what would it be for? Core. To do what?
Recruitment. To use for core scholarships and
recruitment. To pay for tutors and stuff like
that. To convince mom and dad. Their tutoring
program is starting good. But to convince mom and
dad that if you go there, you're going to get a...
We've got enough money here to pay for the very best
tutors that are going to come in to these kids and do
it. Because that's the biggest concern of mom and
dad when they get into the Corps. Not that I think
the Corps can ever be or should ever be the majority
population of the campus, but I don't ever want it
to go away. I want there always to be a significant
presence there. And I think if kids that are coming
here that may want to get in the Corps, that there
are a lot of parents that are going, You know, they
remember back to my days or before me, and that's
the place where they don't let you study. You ought
not do it. And I'd put the money into making sure
they had the best academic tutors they could get.
Allay the fears of mom and daddy. What have we left
out? What topics have we not touched on that we
should have? Well, I don't know. I can't imagine
anything we missed. All right. I've got then one
last question. What feelings do you hold in your
heart for Texas A&M today? Nothing but good. I do
wish I could get the students to vote for one
Democrat every now
and then. But I have nothing but warm feelings. I
believe that whatever little I have accomplished
I would have done none of it had I not had the
experience at A&M. I believe that. I don't think, I
don't think, I think if I had never gone to A&M, I
would never have been a railroad commissioner, a
comptroller of public accounts, a state senator,
or a state representative. I don't believe that
would happen. Not just because it wound up helping
me get elected, but because the experiences led me
that way to begin with. That's a good conclusion.